Newsletters: add 278 (2023-11-22) (#1400)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2023-11-22-newsletter.md

      claimed this particular node is controlled by alice@example.com.
      Teinturier notes that this would require LN implementations to
      implement SSL-compatible cryptography.

    - _Store offers directly in DNS:_ a domain may have multiple DNS
      records that directly store offers for particular addresses.  For
      example, a DNS `TXT` record, `alice._lnaddress.domain.com`,
      includes an offer for Alice.  Another record,
      `bob._lnaddress.domain.com`includes an offer for Bob.  Teinturier
      notes that this requires the domain owner create one DNS record
      per user (and update that record if the user needs to change their
      default offer).

  As of this writing, there had not been any public discussion of the
  ideas.

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

FIXME:bitschmidty

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

<!-- FIXME:harding to update Tuesday -->

> - [Bitcoin Core 26.0rc2][] is a release candidate for the next major
>   version of the predominant full node implementation. There's a [testing
>   guide][26.0 testing] and a scheduled
>   meeting of the [Bitcoin Core PR Review Club][] dedicated to testing on
>   15 November 2023.

Reviewer: The testing meeting has already happened:
```suggestion
- [Bitcoin Core 26.0rc2][] is a release candidate for the next major
  version of the predominant full node implementation. A [testing
  guide][26.0 testing] is available.
```

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo], and
[Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition repo].*

- [Core Lightning #6857][] updates the names of several configuration
  options used for the REST interface to prevent them from conflicting
  with the [c-lightning-rest][] plugin.

- [Eclair #2752][] allows data in an [offer][topic offers] to reference
  a node using either its public key or the identity of one of its
  channels.  A public key is the typical way to identify a node, but it
  uses 33 bytes.  A channel can be identified using a [BOLT7][] _short
  channel identifier_ (SCID), which only uses 8 bytes. Because channels
  are shared by two nodes, an additional bit is prepended to the SCID to
  specifically identify one of the two nodes.  Because offers may often

>   be used in size-constrained media, this space savings is significant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be used in size-constrained media, the space savings are significant.
```

      per user (and update that record if the user needs to change their
      default offer).

  As of this writing, there had not been any public discussion of the
  ideas.

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **BitMask Wallet 0.6.3 released:**
  [BitMask][bitmask website] is a web and browser extension-based wallet for Bitcoin,
  Lightning, RGB, and [payjoin][topic payjoin].

- **Opcode documentation website announced:**
  The [https://opcodeexplained.com/] website was recently [announced][OE tweet]
  and provides explanations of many of Bitcoin's opcodes. The effort is ongoing
  and [contributions are welcome][OE github].

- **Athena Bitcoin adds Lightning support:**
  The Bitcoin ATM [operator][athena website] recently [announced][athena tweet]
  support for receiving Lightning payments for cash withdrawals.

- **Blixt v0.6.9 released:**
  The [v0.6.9][blixt v0.6.9] release includes support for simple taproot
  channels, defaults to [bech32m][topic bech32] receive addresses, and adds
  additional [zero conf channel][topic zero-conf channels] support.

> - **Durabit whitepaper announced:**

Author: Regarding the two papers in this section, I think we should keep them for this newsletter, but I would prefer in the future that we encourage the authors of ideas to post them to one of our [sources](https://bitcoinops.org/internal/sources/).  We want ideas like these to have a chance to be peer reviewed before we write about them.

Reviewer 2: I think this is fair

permalink: /en/newsletters/2023/11/22/
name: 2023-11-22-newsletter
slug: 2023-11-22-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes a proposal to allow retrieval of LN
offers using specific DNS addresses similar to lightning addresses.
Also included are our regular sections summarizing changes to services
and client software, announcing new releases and release candidates, and
describing notable changes to popular Bitcoin infrastructure software.

## News

- **Offers-compatible LN addresses:** Bastien Teinturier
  [posted][teinturier addy] to the Lightning-Dev mailing list about
  creating email-style addresses for LN users in a way that takes
  advantage of the features of the [offers protocol][topic offers].  For
  context, a popular [lightning address][] standard exists based on
  [LNURL][], which requires operating an always-available HTTP server to
  associate email-style addresses with LN invoices.  Teinturier notes
  that this creates several problems:

    - _Lack of privacy:_ the server operator likely learns the IP
      address of the spender and the receiver.

    - _Risk of theft:_ the server operator can man-in-the-middle

>       invoices in order to steal funds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      invoices to steal funds.
```

      domain node replies with an offer signed by its node key, allowing
      the spender to later prove fraud if it provided an offer that
      wasn't from Alice.  The spender can now use the offer protocol to
      request an invoice from Alice.  The spender can also associate
      alice@example.com with the offer, so it doesn't need to contact
      the domain node for future payments to Alice.  Teinturier notes
      that this design is extremely simple.

    - _Certificates in node announcements:_ the existing mechanism an LN
      node uses to advertise itself to the network is modified to allow
      an advertisement to contain an SSL certificate chain proving that
      (according to a certificate authority) the owner of example.com
      claimed this particular node is controlled by alice@example.com.
      Teinturier notes that this would require LN implementations to
      implement SSL-compatible cryptography.

    - _Store offers directly in DNS:_ a domain may have multiple DNS
      records that directly store offers for particular addresses.  For
      example, a DNS `TXT` record, `alice._lnaddress.domain.com`,
      includes an offer for Alice.  Another record,

>       `bob._lnaddress.domain.com`includes an offer for Bob.  Teinturier

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      `bob._lnaddress.domain.com` includes an offer for Bob.  Teinturier
```

      notes that this requires the domain owner create one DNS record
      per user (and update that record if the user needs to change their
      default offer).

>   As of this writing, there had not been any public discussion of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  As of this writing, there has not been any public discussion of the
```

  ideas.

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **BitMask Wallet 0.6.3 released:**
  [BitMask][bitmask website] is a web and browser extension-based wallet for Bitcoin,
  Lightning, RGB, and [payjoin][topic payjoin].

- **Opcode documentation website announced:**
  The [https://opcodeexplained.com/] website was recently [announced][OE tweet]
  and provides explanations of many of Bitcoin's opcodes. The effort is ongoing
  and [contributions are welcome][OE github].

- **Athena Bitcoin adds Lightning support:**
  The Bitcoin ATM [operator][athena website] recently [announced][athena tweet]
  support for receiving Lightning payments for cash withdrawals.

- **Blixt v0.6.9 released:**
  The [v0.6.9][blixt v0.6.9] release includes support for simple taproot
  channels, defaults to [bech32m][topic bech32] receive addresses, and adds
  additional [zero conf channel][topic zero-conf channels] support.

- **Durabit whitepaper announced:**
  The [Durabit whitepaper][] outlines a protocol using [timelocked][topic
  timelocks] Bitcoin transactions in conjunction with a chaumian-style mint

>   to incentivize seeding of large files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  to incentivize the seeding of large files.
```

- **BitStream whitepaper announced:**
  The [BitStream whitepaper][] and [early prototype][bitstream github] layout a
  protocol for the hosting and atomic exchange of digital content for
  coins using timelocks and merkle trees with verification and fraud

>   proofs.  For previous discusison of paid data transfer protocols, see

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  proofs.  For previous discussion of paid data transfer protocols, see
```

  [Newsletter #53][news53 data].

- **BitVM proof of concepts:**
  Two proof of concepts building on [BitVM][news273 bitvm] were posted including
  one [implementing][bitvm tweet blake3] the [BLAKE3][] hash function and
  [another][bitvm techmix poc] that [implements][bitvm sha256] SHA256.

- **Bitkit adds taproot send support:**
  [Bitkit][bitkit website], a mobile Bitcoin and Lightning wallet, added
  [taproot][topic taproot] sending support in the [v1.0.0-beta.86][bitkit
  v1.0.0-beta.86] release.

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [LND v0.17.2-beta][] is a maintenance release that only includes one
  small change to fix the bug reported in [LND #8186][].

- [Bitcoin Core 26.0rc2][] is a release candidate for the next major

>   version of the predominant full node implementation. There's a [testing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  version of the predominant full-node implementation. There's a [testing
```

Reviewer: This doesn't look right. A grep through the `_posts/en` directory gives 240 results for "full node" and only 6 for "full-node", all of which are a part of a URL.

Author: I don't have a strong preference either way.  I suggest we leave it as-is in the merged newsletter and I'll try to remember this discussion the next time someone suggests the hyphenated / single-adjective version and we can debate it then.
